National Bank, first always.
Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley. I'm Tom Terbivill.
The proud story of the 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion is told in the words written by Cal Boykin of College Station, a historian of the 814th.
Cal Boykin was a gunner. Atop his M8 armored car on Recon duty in World War II's European campaign, patrolling the French roads behind Normandy through Belgium and Holland.
On the Germany, it is our honor to welcome Cal Boykin Jr. of College Station to Veterans of the Valley. Cal, it is an honor to have you here. Your A&M Class of 1946.
1946. You've lived here a long time. Now you were born in Roswell, New Mexico in 1924.
1924 and that was 12 years after New Mexico became a state. And quite a number of years before the ET landed in Roswell.
You were somewhere in between those days. You weren't in New Mexico long. Actually you grew up in Big Spring and it was that time when you were a youth and you were playing sports in high school.
Then you decided that the war had broken out and you decided that you needed some military training and that's where Texas A&M came into.
I sort of talked about your youth. Well I had never been to A&M. I had some friends. Of course I lived on the farm at Roswell with my grandmother for a while and I knew some graduates or seniors with their boots.
And I was anxious to get the A&M for that reason as an in addition to being able to be ready to go into service when I was called.
Now you grew up in Roswell, which is near Brady, which is where Earl Rudder was a coach.
Yes, he was coach in high school football. I was playing on the grammar school Roswell team.
Right. Right. You went back to Big Spring 16 years old. That's when you decided you want the military training and you came to A&M in 1942.
So you talked about A&M in the early 40s as the war was, as the United States was just getting into the war.
Well it was a busy place. I don't remember there were over 7,000 students and maybe close to 8,000.
And they were getting ready to go. And what happened the draft age was lower to 18. I believe it was November of 1942.
I started in June of the party. You want that tri semester, speed it up program.
And so many decided they'd go that route and list in the, in the list reserve court.
Well I decided nothing to do anything. I went home, checked with my draft board and the young blonde there said you volunteer and you get your choice branch of service.
And I said well sure, air course. So I signed up and two weeks later I was gone.
And they threw you a curve though a little bit, right? They threw you a curve ball on the road.
She had, I guess she had the right information but they turned it on her. But I was inducted in Lubbock in the home up to Fort Seal.
As soon as I arrived I had a V volunteer for the draft next to my number.
And the first sergeant said forget it. We're going to put you where we want you.
And I'll give credit to the placement officer who tried to get me out of the infantry because I had a farm experience and that was about it.
She can go to some shopping cotton but anyway I finally said make it wide, washing grease, cars at the Crawford Hotel at Big Spring.
Where it's my father managed. And so right away tank destroyers. But at the same time they found out I could type courtesy of high school Big Spring.
And so I was typing insurance forms there at the Fort Seal for quite a while and I thought that was going to be my permanent assignment but all of a sudden I moved to Camp Hood.
Right, right, which was what Fort Hood was called before.
That's right. Right. And you were in the 814th. And obviously this is-
Right, after I left Hood now it was a Hood quite a long time.
And it- it- uh-
Tank destroyer replacement training center. Now General AD Bruce class of 16, ADM is the one who established that and is known as the father of Fort Hood.
I see. So anyway I left there and joined the 814th on maneuvers in Louisiana.
Right, and Fort Polk.
Right, Fort Polk. Right. Right. It was Camp Polk at that time. Right. Camp Polk, that's really where the 814th was first-
It was formed there in 1942. Right. And it had the Indiana National Guard as Cadre, maybe some from Kentucky I don't remember.
And then it was- it was activated in Fort Polk or Camp Polk as you said. Right.
But then it moved its headquarters to Camp Bowie, Texas. It was there at Bowie because Camp Hood was so crowded. Right.
They didn't have room so they trained at Bowie for a little while at Brownwood and then moved on to Hood. Right.
And March of 1943 I believe is when it- Well that was before they went on maneuvers. Right. They went back to uh-
Polk. Right. Leased them all that area. Yeah. Cut over timberland.
Cold winter. Talk about uh- tank destroyers and the tanks because I know that obviously the vehicles themselves are-
Right. Something that means a lot to you you have several books you have written your own history of the 814th.
Right. Talk about the different kind of tanks that there were. It was- it was amazing these- and you were in an M8 armored vehicle. Right. Right.
But the tank destroyers this was something envisioned by General Marshall Chief of Staff. And it was developed by General McNair and implemented by General AD Bruce. Right.
Major General AD Bruce. Class of A&M-16. Right. Right. I don't forget. And uh- so we went there and- but he had a big hand in designing the tank destroyer.
It started out with a uh- free quarter ton truck with a 37 millimeter mounted on the top with a thin gun shield. Well that was useless but anyway they could use it in training.
And then the M3 which was a half track with a 75 millimeter gun. A half track personnel character with a 75 millimeter gun which was a step up I'd say. Right.
Then finally they came with the M10 which was on a medium tank chassis like the Sherman. And a little bit of different turret to it and it mounted a three inch gun with 76 millimeter which- and a little more powerful.
The more powerful gun which which could do the job. Now General Bruce wasn't too happy with that one. He wanted the M18 which was a lower lighter in weight at a 6.76 millimeter gun too.
But anyway they produced both of those but the M10 was the first real tank destroyer. Yeah. And then the the armored car. And the armored car. We used the that little M6 with the 36 millimeter gun.
The 37 millimeter gun and the gun shield on the three quarter ton truck in training. When we got to England we drew our M8s. The first I'd even seen. And it's a 55 mile an hour, six wheel rubber tires going.
And the 37 millimeter gun with the coaxially mounted 30 caliber machine gun. And and some had a ring mount with a 50 caliber. My thought was you'd never get out of that thing if you got hit because you had to get over that ring. So I I wasn't too unhappy about not having a 50 caliber.
We're going to see a photograph a little bit later on of the M8. It's not what people normally think of as a tank when they look at the movies with the tanks that that run over piles of things and all that. These these tires looked like regular semi tires like six rubber tires and that was for speed and the new mobility. Right.
Yeah. Right. And at their maneuver and and we were classified ready as well. See the tank destroyer tiny had three gun companies 36 tank destroyers. And they had a reconnaissance company. Of course headquarters, but the reconnaissance had three recon potions and and a pioneer kind of engineer mind sweeper digging around what not type of.
Right. Now you talk about the M8. You didn't really get exposed to that weapon until you were actually in England as I understand, but when you were there, you were a gunner on this M8 armored car with 37 millimeter gun. But let's get you over to England from Halifax to England aboard a reconstructed luxury liner. Right.
The other France, which the British had taken over our crew was a British crew of a few Canadians. And there were 15,000 as I heard understood troops aboard that ship when we left on on Valentine's Day of February 44. And it took us seven days. Right.
Zigzag and I suppose for course rumors about it, we've been some we've been following with all these sorts of things. Right. It was it was crewed by the British. Yeah. And the food was horrible. Oh, we bet. That native means breakfast and kidneys and I don't know what I'll live probably as a matter of fact. Cal Boken a boy can wrote this book. The history of the eight hundred and four teeth tank destroyer battalion. I want to read what she wrote about the food. Okay.
I'll try to I'll try to be sensitive as I can on this. You said that Warren Bressler of Wakefield, Nebraska, remember standing in line with his mess kit and a coffee cup ready for breakfast.
The soldier in front of me held out his mess kit to receive his oatmeal and liver breakfast. Yeah. The liver was actually cooked in the oatmeal. When the oatmeal hit the mess kit, it had a dead mouse in it. Yeah.
The cook picked the mouse out of the oatmeal and liver by the tail through it on the floor and said to the GI, you don't have to eat that. He went on to say that he spent $1.75 of the money that he'd won playing poker to go out and buy a corn beef hash sandwich.
I was a big operation. We had going by no sandwiches until he cut that off. He took his hard earned poker money to go buy that sandwich rather than eat that oatmeal and liver.
I can't say that I blame him at all. No, that's right. You got to England talk about after you got to England and what you thought that you were preparing for as far as the invasion of Normandy and sort of take us through that time.
We of course landed at Grinick Scotland and made it and he transported down near Birmingham. We got off his strap for Don Ava, although I wasn't aware of that. That was Shakespeare's place. But anyway, we ended up at Packington Park, which is in the state of Lord Packington.
Things went well there. We had our equipment, all of our tanker stores, our armored cars and trucks and jeeps and all that. We did a little maneuvering around occasionally, but not too much.
We could do so much damage. We tore up the gate to the Packington Park. We had to go and park all the way off somewhere. We had to go guard at night.
That's a big large time on guard there at night.
You thought at the time that maybe your group was going to be part of the invasion itself, but it turned out you became protectors of the men of the invasion.
Talk about what your duty was. After about three months up at the Birmingham, we moved down on the coast and dorsed it.
You're a dorsetster. They had several marshaling areas there. We thought we would be part of the invasion.
I wouldn't say that I was one of the youngest in my company. Most of them were up in the late 20s or 30s because they were mechanics and truck drivers.
Foreign boys, they knew machinery. They could do all these things. I was just a late comor. But anyway, all of a sudden they altered our plan and we became service troops to the invasion force itself.
I was 20 years old and I felt like I was a senior to these kids. They were young kids. They had the spirit.
You talked about a young corporal in a speech. I'll tell you if I can remember it. We had these little tent movies. He got up on the stage and the hit of one was.
He recited Bitty Row's poem, The Unknown Soldier. He said, the last verse, I am the Unknown Soldier and maybe I died in vain.
But if my country, if I were alive in my country call, I would do it all over again. And boy, they cheered and had him do it again.
It's amazing how those snapshots in your mind will stay there.
Another thing, they had music and old Texas Jim Robinson was saying I'd love to be in Texas for the round up in the spring. That was the other side.
I know of the 814. There were several members that were from Texas.
Not very many, not very many. A couple of officers. One or two in this.
Let's go right now to some photographs that we want to show that these are pictures a lot from your book, which is I guess subtitled a guard of that, which means.
Beware of the beast.
He's talking about the, talking about the tanker's story. Let's go to some of the pictures now that we have. You can look at them right there on the monitor.
Now that is a young Calvin Boykin and also the patch of your unit.
So when was that picture taken that was taken while I was at North Camp Hood, right?
And the patch shoulder patch is a tanker's story or the seventh arm.
Yeah, the tank, the tiger or the Panther crushing the tank is John.
Now the seventh armoured we were attached to them after we landed in Normandy. Right. Right.
And all the way through. And I belong to their association.
Of course, last week I was in Holland with them. Right. We're going to talk about that. You just got back from a trip.
Where was this picture taken? That by the way was taken in at Burr, Scotland.
And that was when I had never received a furlough in all my service. Right.
But there we were across the Rhine and all of a sudden they came and well, no, if I wanted to go to England, which I did.
Well, I got up to Birmingham, a girlfriend had married. So I moved on up to Edinburgh.
And that's it. Sir Walter Scott monument. Right. Hit the base.
All right. Let's move on to the next photograph.
You are there on the, on the left on your sort of kneeled over with my mask.
The mask is usually, you know. Right. Right. Right. And that was in Birmingham already packing to the park.
That was early. Right. Right. As you were preparing to move across the English Channel.
And that's a members of your company there. Here's another picture. This is obviously during the winter.
Yes. At near Spa Bells and it was right after the worst part of the balls.
This was in January of 45. And when I sent that picture home, they didn't realize my hand was wrapped here.
I spent four days in the field hospital, non combat wounds. I didn't get any purple heart.
But it was an infection that develops and an old breaded, a bell's in farmer told me you better get to the doctor.
And I did. And they kept me there and drained that out every four hours or so. Wow. For a long time.
It was painful. Yeah. Okay. Let's move on. I think we've got to, this is a book that the cover of a book, as you can see the title World War II, AFVs armored fighting vehicles.
And the reason that we're showing this is that the cover photo as you would find out later on is your tank. You're in that photo.
It's somewhat hard to see, but you say that you're the person up in the top of the turret with the helmet sort of sticking up over the gun barrel there.
And that's you. And I guess you didn't even know that this picture was taken. My last name was going to be used for the cover of this book.
No, I never, and my brother-in-law, down in the past school of Dickinson, he noticed that he found this and told me to take a look.
And I said, my gosh, that's our crew. I recognized every one of them. Right. But that's a replacement armored car. And I was a sergeant. I made a sergeant after we lost the armored car and our crew scattered.
And so I took over. Right. And so we were all for the mission somewhere. Right. Right. And you show up on the cover of a book. That's pretty, pretty fascinating. Yeah. That's amazing.
And this is the cover of your book, a history of the 814th Tank Destroyer Battalion, 1942 to 1945. And you wrote that book.
Talk, it's a great cover with that emblem of the, of the, is that's a Panther? Is that right? Of a Panther chewing up a tank.
Right. And, well, I've been collecting documents because I go to Washington for work, some work assignments. Right. And I'd go over to Suplin, the Marathon, Maryland for the Federal Records Center and see what I've had.
And then I had copies made of everything from the 814th. And then I got some from the 7th Army as well. And I used those in the book. Plus what I'd gotten from individual members,
former members of the 814th. They sent me pictures, biographical sketches, information about training and some action, quite a bit of action. And I used almost everything they sent. Right. And it was a pretty good sample. Now these were midwestern boys. Now they most up more.
And it's a fascinating book. No nonsense for us. Yeah. Absolutely. I want to, by the way, I tell folks now that we're not going to tell all of Sergeant Boykin's story in this episode of Veterans of the Valley as a matter of fact, we'll be continuing next week.
So we're going to hear the whole story because it is indeed fascinating. But for the rest of the time that we have here, I want you to talk about your landing at Utah Beach. It was August the 8th of 1944, some two months after D day.
And talk about what you felt you had come over from Waymeth across the English Channel. And I know in your book, you talked about the entire experiences from the beaches to the Baltic.
Right. Talk about landing at Utah Beach and sort of your initial days, the France.
Well, we came across on the LST. In fact, we loaded up and we were sitting there waiting. So we had the captain lower the thing down so we could go sling into the east way around the channel and came back on there.
But we landed, came in at night and you could see the hulls or some ships either had been sunk through a fire or maybe purposely to stem the tides and so on.
But anyway, you can see that. And then we pulled, then we rested and went to tide, went out, then we lowered the ramp and just drove off. And it was August the 8th and that's the record show that. And I remember it because that was my grandmother's, my maternal grandmother's first day.
I see.
And so you moved into Utah Beach and you thought that there might be a little bit of time to sort of get settled and sort of learn what was going on. But no, you all moved out that morning.
That's right. And it was completely different all we knew that what you know the hedge rose and there had been a big cobra operation and a breakthrough and tanks were on the move.
But I expected to be brought fraught here with infantry and tanks and and so on there and do each fire support and everything and all that.
No, we've we've single filed and we left that next morning and I told the dinner I said, hell, that's where the Germans are. He said, that's right.
But we were with Patent's third Army and you know the story of how fast they barrel through France. Right.
And one thing I did have not mentioned is the fact I was interviewed by the Army hour at the same river crossing.
I see.
And by lieutenant and I and I like to say, well, we're doing once again read because they gave us a script to read they wouldn't let us off the cup say anything as far as I could tell.
And we did a dry run. Of course, you can hear the mortars coming in the machine guns and so on.
And but all it was was how many miles a day we'd driven, how much gas we'd use which we had no idea and so on.
And then the interviewer shook our hands like they will be the first to cross the same.
And this will be broadcast at home Sunday night. Well, we didn't cross. We went farther south. We were not the first to cross.
And I don't think it was ever aired back home. Thank goodness. Well, that's showbiz, right?
You were attached to the seventh armored division like you said. And but your particular job, your particular duty was as recon.
Talk about that and what was involved with that because I guess as danger goes, that was one of the more dangerous elements of the situation.
It's usually you take the recon and they would lead the column. Until we made contact.
And we sent something going on. In one case, we had one of his young arms or maybe he was a postman.
I don't know. We had a cap in the uniform right in the bicycle. We said, you write it here about 100 yards or 200 yards.
And then signal, if you see anything or don't tell us whether to come or not. And we do that. And all of a sudden he dropped down.
And we didn't hear came the German column. I was in front. Well, I fired as quickly as I could and knocked out the lead vehicle.
And when you see him like it was slow motion, you know, trying to get things up, see the sight and bam.
And then my sergeant in the seat next to me, he couldn't wait. He reached over hit the machine gun pedal.
And there was an infantry, a load of infantry right behind that one. And it mowed into the infantry and of course they scattered.
And then the 17 tank battalion behind us, they said, well, move over, we're coming through. So they came through.
And the whole, the first one got hit. Hit right up and started blazing away. Well, those Germans on that infantry truck had underhooked that anti-tank gun and just sat there and leveled it off and knocked out that like a tank.
Well, we rescued two of the crew. I don't know what happened the other two. Right. And with that, just an example.
One of your duties was to sort of clean up villages that had been bypassed. I guess in the initial assault on on on Normandy.
Right. And in that process, we were on the flanks of the main columns. And we would maybe sound the alarm in case something happened there.
But we didn't roll into one village and our revertires and so on. And the Germans were off their guns. A couple of them in the orchard talking to this French lady.
They saw us and they threw up our hand. And we had taken, I think, the first prisoners our battalion took.
Is that right? And we sent them back to the room. So by this time, the Germans were, they were ready for this war to be over.
Many have more of that's right. There were some, they were diehars. I'll tell you they were, they were, they were with it to the bitter end. But most of them said, let's get on.
This is something else. Right. Right. Right.
The next show we're going to talk about more about your track through Belgium and Holland and into Germany.
We've got about a minute and a half left on this one. Your marriage arose. Married. As a matter of fact, you July the first, I believe you had been married 61 years.
And just talk very quickly about your family. I know you have four children. Right. Well, we have four children and seven grandchildren. Right. And some great grandchildren. And four great grandchildren. Wow.
And so we've covered the waterfront. Indeed. And if you look at some of these, one of these books is what if I say what if that anti-tank gun had been just a hair floor?
None of this. What did you exist? Exactly. This what if? Exactly. And we think about those. You think about the generations that would not have been a whole generation had things have gone somewhat differently.
Right. Of course, we know I know that Rosemary has published herself a history of the Brasus Valley Italians. That's right. Right. From her heritage. And she worked hard getting that historic, satyrical marker down there at Steele Store. Right.
And then she's written her family history from Sicily, Texas. Right. Well, history is in your family's blood because I know one of your daughters and works for the city of college station. And she's been the founder of the project hold. Right.
That is so meaningful to the city of college station. And she loves that history and she remembers she remembers things I didn't know happened.
But it's just that great time. It really has. We've enjoyed it. Thank you. And we're going to be back next week and talk for more.
Well, Boykin story is one of the many that can't be properly told in just 30 minutes. So we will continue hearing the proud story of the 814th tank, the story of the tie in next week, as well as his fascinating post military career.
We salute Cal Boykin for his service as we salute all veterans. I'm Tom Turbivale. Join Cal Boykin in me next week on Veterans of the Valley.
I'm going to be a 30 and you're working. Okay. Okay. Okay. Well, he usually builds something in because he knows I go long sometimes.
Yeah, tell him to give you a one minute because of all the ones. Yeah, of all the ones that I get, that's the most important because that's the one where I can judge pretty much.
Okay. We want to do this promo. Okay. We'll do this promo. We're just going to do a promo for that show and you don't need to do anything but just look into that camera.
Are they ready? Okay.
They won't, not one hundred, 800. Here we go. Let's do it again. The 800 and 14th tank destroyer battalion was attached to Patent's Army during the Allies' final push through Europe at the end of World War Two.
And college stations, Cal Boykin was a gunner riding high on an inmate armored car. A historian and author, a soldier.
Meekal Boykin Jr. of College Station on Veterans of the Valley, Friday at 830, Saturday
and Sunday at 630 on KAMU TV.
That was a good time.
Top of the studio at the top.
We're not going to save you.
Okay.
I can go a little slower, right?
Was that a little short?
Hey, I wouldn't go any slower.
Okay, I'll go the same then.
All right, here we go.
The 814th Tank Destroyer battalion was attached to Patton's Army during the Allies' final push through Europe at the end of World War II.
And College Station's cowboykin was a gunner riding high on an M8 armored car, a historian and author, a soldier.
Meekal Boykin Jr. of College Station on Veterans of the Valley, Friday at 830, Saturday and Sunday at 630 on KAMU TV.
You